---
layout: post
title: "April 24, 2020"
---

## April 24, 2020

### PM Trudeau

* At 2:00 PM there will be a moment of silence for the victims of the Nova Scotia shooting. At 7:00 PM there will be an online vigil
* 75% reduction in rent for small and medium sized businesses for April, May, and June. Government will cover 50% while landlords are on the hook for the rest. Businesses are eligible if they're paying less than $50,000 per month in rent and have temporarily ceased operations or have experienced at least a 70% drop in pre-COVID-19 revenues. Charities and non-profit organizations are also covered
* "Singapore and Japan reopened their economy too soon and are paying the price for it. Canada will reopen very slowly."

### Québec Premier Legault

* The call for help fill vacant roles in long-term care homes has been extended to those who don't have all the qualifications, they will be paid the same
* Opposition party Québec Solidaire is suggesting for the Legault government to put measures into place to financially support small businesses, community organizations and the agricultural sector, for a total of $120 million per year for five years as well as to increase minimum wage to $15 to give people more buying power which would help re-start the economy
* Responding to criticism from the PM the Premier suggested going back to a 50-50 cost-sharing model for long-term care homes in Québec
* Not a lot of new updates other than that, the Premier re-iterated that re-opening plans for schools and SMBs will be shared next week and that a pamphlet on mask wearing protocol will be shared soon

### Ontario Premier Ford 

* $900M to the emergency commercial rent relief program to support small and medium sized businesses in Ontario
* Frozen evictions so you won't lose your home. Working with the federal government to support residential rent relief
* Early next week they'll release the provincial framework for re-opening the economy. "Saskatchewan has a much smaller population and wide open spaces. We will look at models around the world and take the best ideas off them."
