---
layout: post
title: "April 16, 2020"
---

## April 16, 2020

### PM Trudeau

* Weekly meeting with the provinces and territories later today - focus will be on support for long-term care homes
* Expanding the Canada Emergency Business Account - businesses that spent between $20,000 and $1.5 million on payroll are now eligible (used to be $50,000 and $1 million). 195,000 loans have already been approved, worth $7.5 billion in credit
* Introducing the Canada Emergency Commercial Rent Assistance to help small businesses with their rent payments for the months of April, May, and June. This needs to be arranged with the provinces and said more details will come soon
* "It will be many weeks before can talk about relaxing restrictions on our border" - in response to Trump's comments yesterday

### Ontario Premier Ford

* In the last 24 hours, five hospitals banded together to support 38 long-term care homes
* Over 2,000 acute and critical care beds have been added in hospitals, another 4,200 will be ready by end of April
* He expects Ontario will get new modelling numbers next week - they'll update projections and timelines after
* "Last week, I promised by today we'd be testing 8,000/day. We're at 9,000. We're going to keep going until we hit 14,000 by the end of month"
* Says PM Trudeau "should say no right away to President Trump" and keep the border closed to the United States

### Québec Premier Legault

* Public health has decided to go back and count deaths of people who were never tested, the change in post-mortem tests has lead to 143 deaths announced today.
* We're up to 15,857 confirmed cases, 1000 people hospitalized but the number of individuals in intensive care has dropped to 209.
* The Province has extended the state of emergency to April 24th
* Doctors and other healthcare professionals have responded to the call for more support in long-term care homes. The province is now working to effectively triage and get these people to work where help is most needed.
* Premier Legault has also formally requested military aid from Prime Minister Trudeau who is now considering the request
* The city of Montreal is using part of it's $250M budget surplus from 2019 to not raise taxes and [offer loans](https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/montreal-mayor-support-businesses-1.5533295) of up to $50,000 to as many as 1000 SMBs
